[Music]
this video is going to cover system
functions available to federal users
with the roles of Contracting Officer
and contract specialist within the
contract opportunities domain on beta
Sam.gov before we begin there are a few
things we should mention the FBO.gov
buyer role is now contracting officer
and all the FBO.gov roles of limited
buyer and engineer now both fall within
the role of contract specialist within
this system the contract officer role
possesses the most authority along with
the ability to complete any action
available to the contract specialist
role contract officer is the only role
able to post or publish an opportunity
or an opportunity update to beta.Sam.gov
it is also the only role which can
change interested vendor list settings
delete attachments from postings and
delete postings altogether any users
looking for information regarding system
accounts should look for the separate
training video covering system accounts
the permissions associated with the
contract specialist role will vary users
with full contract specialist rights
will be able to create draft
opportunities create draft opportunity
updates edit draft opportunities add
attachments and links and follow
opportunities now that you understand
the roles associated with the contract
opportunities domain let's go over some
of the other changes in terminology
associated with the transition from FBO.
gov to beta.Sam.gov the legacy term
watch list is now called following users
can follow opportunities to receive
updates the legacy search agents is now
saved search
next users no longer need to worry about
archiving opportunities and can simply
mark them inactive and the opportunities
will be automatically archived within
Beta.Sam.gov has
also broken-down packages to just
attachments but the functionality that
allows you to associated control
documents remains the same with the
added benefit of being managed
individually
additionally beta.Sam.gov is
updating the legacy modification
amendment terms which indicated that a
notice was edited and published again
within the system amended or edited
opportunities will be marked simply
updated on beta.Sam.gov this is due
to the fact that most opportunity
revisions are indicating clarifications
Corrections or simply system updates and
are not indicating true Acquisition
amendments or modifications with the
important changes noted will now begin
the system tutorial the first section
will cover creating and posting a
contract opportunity it will then be
followed by tutorials covering the
editing opportunities and deleting
opportunities users looking to create
and save as draft or post a contract
opportunity to beta.Sam.gov can
begin by logging into beta.Sam.gov and
navigating to their workspace once in
your workspace about halfway down the
page will be a widget headed contract
opportunities there are several options
within this widget through which you can
begin the create opportunity process we
recommend that you click contract
opportunities workspace once in the
contract opportunities workspace you
will find a dashboard through which you
can find a search for all the active
inactive completed and draft contract
opportunities on beta.Sam.gov you will
notice that the list of filters allowing
you to refine your search by opportunity
status contain the options active
canceled and inactive cancer
these two options will eventually become
simply canceled so users should not be
alarmed if these options appear slightly
different on their screen to start
creating an opportunity begin by
clicking the blue button towards the top
of the screen ad contract opportunity
start by selecting the type of
solicitation and then enter in the title
and other identifying information before
moving on we want to note that if you
have an existing opportunity you can
update that opportunity by selecting a
solicitation type that's further down
the progression towards completion and
linking it to that existing solicitation
for example if you have an existing
opportunity that is a pre-solicitation
by creating a new post that is a
solicitation and linking it to that
opportunity that existing post will
automatically be linked and updated with
the newly entered corresponding data
when you reach the federal organization
picker it is recommended that you click
advanced before selecting select the
relevant agency and office once the
office is selected click the green Add
button and then click Next to move on to
the general information next in the
general information section select the
due date of your contract opportunity
and then select the criteria for when
your opportunity will be marked as
inactive and archived it is also in this
section that you can dictate the
creation of an interested vendors list
and who will have visibility to the IBL
we want to note that the ability to
modify interested vendors list settings
is based on account permissions so users
who need to change default IVL settings
but cannot because they are locked into
their default settings should contact
their administrator to request the
proper permissions
once all pertinent information has been
entered click Next the classification
section will provide fields to select
set aside status for your opportunity as
well as applicable makes codes and
geographic information please note that
the ability to select a set aside status
is available for all opportunity types
except intent to bundle and
justification users creating intent to
bundle or justification opportunity
types will not be able to select a set
aside status once you have entered all
the pertinent information click Next the
description section will provide a field
in which you can enter a general
description that will be displayed as
part of your opportunity when viewed by
others once you have finished with your
description click Next
following the description section you
will be able to attach relevant files
and links click browse to upload files
from your computer to attach to your
description users also have the ability
to simply drag and drop a file from
their computers default file browser
simply open your Apple finder or Windows
Explorer to the proper folder and drag
the file into the designated box in the
center of the screen as a note a user
who is adding or editing attachments on
a notice has the ability to restrict
access to controlled but unclassified
information by simply using the toggle
in the attachment upload area users will
then need to authenticate and request
access to the attachment users will also
see a log of these requests and a status
of the request in the general user feeds
additionally if you need to access any
outside links click the blue add link
button and enter the relevant link
information once you have entered all
the pertinent information click Next the
final section is contact info enter in
all the relevant contact information
into the provided fields as a note the
point of contact data entered will be
publicly available one
published once entered click done
once you click done you will be provided
with the opportunity to review the
information that you entered as well as
show how it will appear to public users
once you have reviewed all the
information click publish your contract
opportunity is now published and
accessible within the contract
opportunity workspace users looking to
edit a contract opportunity to beta dot
sam.gov can begin by logging in to beta.
Sam.gov and navigating to their
workspace once in the workspace about
halfway down the page will be a widget
called contract opportunities there are
several options within this widget
through which you can begin editing an
opportunity but we recommend that you
clicked contract opportunities workspace
once in the contract opportunities
workspace you will find a dashboard
through which you can find and search
for all active inactive canceled and
draft contract opportunities on beta Sam
gov as a note any inactive opportunity
will need to be made active again before
it can be edited start by locating the
opportunity that you would like to edit
and click that opportunity's blue title
located towards the top of the
opportunity is an option called edit if
the edit option is disabled for you that
means that a draft already exists for
this post to open that draft select the
information icon that says an
unpublished draft revision exists for
this notice please click here to view it
click Edit to create a draft notice in
which you can edit the opportunities
content users should note that there is
no expiration date associated with
drafts so once a draft is created it
will be available until it is manually
deleted by a user with the proper
permissions work through the sections
one by one and make sure that all
pertinent information has been changed
as a note if you are looking to change
the solicitation type for example from
pre-solicitation to solicitation
you will need to create a new
opportunity when you create the new
opportunity and link it to the previous
one beta.Sam.gov will automatically link
the two opportunities postings and
transfer the core data to the newest
version use the attachments workspace to
modify your opportunities attachments
you have the ability to add and remove
documents here if you are adding
documents you don't have to worry about
submitting documentation to appear as
amendments users will not receive
notifications regarding changes in
attachments until the draft notice has
been published once published vendors
following the posting will be notified
of the updates by uploading new
documents vendors will be notified
automatically that the posting has been
updated within the post the date that a
document was attached will be displayed
next to each attachment so that vendors
will be able to discern which document
was uploaded most recently while the
system may not automatically register a
new upload as an amendment users can
still incorporate the word amendment
within the file name to make it
additionally discernable to vendors once
you have updated all pertinent fields
and verified all entries click the blue
publish button towards the top of the
screen should the publish button be
disabled it is likely due to a
validation error regarding one of the
entries within the posting if you cannot
publish either look for the error banner
at the top of the screen or look for the
section on the left side of the screen
that has an exclamation point rather
than a green check mark once all
outstanding input errors have been
resolved you will be able to publish
your posting you will be notified that
all the changes you've made will become
public should you proceed click OK to
finish editing your opportunity users
with the role of contract officer
looking to delete a contract opportunity
to bethe sam.gov can begin by logging in
to beta I am
and navigating to their workspace once
in your workspace about halfway down the
page will be a widget headed contract
opportunities there are several options
within this widget through which you can
delete an opportunity but we recommend
that you click contract opportunities
workspace once in the contract
opportunities workspace you will find a
dashboard through which you can find in
search for all active inactive completed
and draft contract opportunities on beta.
Sam.gov we want to note here that
the ability to delete either draft
notices or published opportunities is
permission dependent so if you find any
options locked contact your
administrator because you will likely
need to be delegated these advanced
permissions to delete an opportunity
begin by locating the pertinent contract
opportunity and clicking its blue title
once on that opportunities page locate
the drop-down menu labeled actions and
select inactive to make the opportunity
inactive that contract opportunity is
now no longer publicly accessible and
all that will remain is an archived
record of the post all users following
the post will be notified of the status
change of the post should you need to
reopen a post for any reason in that
same Actions menu there will be the
option reactivate click this option to
reactivate the opportunity which will
create a draft notice which can then be
published any active post that is
deleted and designated cancelled will
display canceled as the status of the
post to notify vendors
[Music]